---
layout: docs
page_title: Permissions index
description: |-
  Boundary's permissions model
---

# Permissions in Boundary

Boundary's permissions model is a composable, RBAC, allow-only model that
attempts to marry flexibility with usability. This page discusses the permission
model's fundamental concepts, provides examples of the specific forms of allowed
grants, and contains a table that acts as an easy cheat sheet to help those new
to its grant syntax with crafting roles.

Boundary's [domain model](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model) is based on resource
types. These can be implemented directly, such as with targets, or they can be
abstract types that are implemented by concrete types within the system. As an
example of the latter, a host catalog is an abstract type and a Static host
catalog is a concrete type.

From a permissions standpoint, all actions take place against directly
implemented or abstract types. There may be actions that are only implemented by
some concrete types (e.g., not all `auth-method` implementations will support a
`change-password` action), but the permissions model still defines these
capabilities at the abstract type level. This helps keep the overall system
relatively simple and predictable.

At a very high level, permissions within Boundary are declared via grant strings
and mapped to users via roles.

## Grant strings

A grant string has a form similar to:

`id=<id>;type=<type>;actions=<action list>;output_fields=<fields list>`

Each grant string is a mapping that describes a resource or set of resources and
the permissions that should be granted on them.

There are currently two types of selectors:

- An `id` field that indicates a specific resource or a wildcard to match all

- A `type` field that indicates a specific resource type or a wildcard to match
  all; this might also be used to grant permissions on collections of resources

Selectors are used to indicate which resources on which the grant should apply,
using specific IDs or wildcard IDs and type selectors. (The acceptable grant
string formats are detailed later on this page.)

Additionally, there are two types of assigned permissions:

- An `actions` field indicating which actions to allow the client to perform on
  the resources matched by `id` and `type`

- An `output_fields` field indicating which top-level fields to return in the
  response (0.2.1+)

Grant strings can be supplied via a human-friendly string syntax or via JSON.

## Roles

Roles map grant strings to _principals_, currently users and groups. Every role
assigns grants within a specific scope: either the scope in which the role
exists, or a scope that is a child of the scope in which the role exists,
controlled by the role's "grant scope ID" value

When a request is made, the scope in which to discover grants is either provided
by the client (if against a resource collection itself) or is looked up using
the resource's ID. This scope ID, along with the user's ID and the IDs of the
groups the user belongs to, controls which roles are fetched to provide grants
for the request.

A role provides grants for a request if the grant scope ID matches the request's
scope ID and one or more of the following are true:

- The user's ID is contained in the principal IDs set on the role

- A group the user belongs to is contained in the principal IDs set on the role

- The user is logged in and the `u_auth` user is contained in the principal IDs
  set on the role

- The role contains the `u_anon` user in the in the principal IDs set on the
  role

Roles are composable; a user's final set of grants will be composed of grants
that originate from all matching roles.